Maven plugin implementation (#1049)
lightbend/cloudflow: docs/shared-content-source/docs/modules/develop/pages/maven-support.adoc

:page-partial:

include::ROOT:partial$include.adoc[]

The default build tool for Cloudflow applications is `sbt` but there is support for Maven builds as well.

> In the `examples` directory you can find some reference projects compiled with Maven their folder is marked with a trailing `mvn-` prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `examples` directory you can find some reference projects compiled with Maven. Folders are marked with a `mvn-` prefix.
```

The Cloudflow maven plugin can be included in the `plugins` section:

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
  <groupId>com.lightbend.cloudflow</groupId>
  <artifactId>cloudflow-maven-plugin</artifactId>
  <version>${cloudflow.plugin.version}</version>
</plugin>
----

For Docker we support and integrate the workflow with http://dmp.fabric8.io/[fabric8 docker-maven-plugin].

== Maven Workflow

Using a Cloudflow Maven project you can use the following Maven goals:

. `package` your application in a `.jar`

> . `cloudflow:extract-streamlets` to make available the `Streamlets` implementation for the next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `cloudflow:extract-streamlets` to make the `Streamlets` implementation available for the next steps
```

> Now you can already perform a few interesting commands to analyze and develop your application locally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After using the goals mentioned above, you can perform a few interesting commands to analyze and develop your application locally:
```

* `cloudflow:verify-blueprint` will verify that the provided `blueprint.conf` is valid
* `cloudflow:app-layout` will print the graph of interconnections of the streamlets

> * `cloudflow:run-local` run the application on forked JVMs locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `cloudflow:run-local` will run the application on forked JVMs locally
```

To deploy your application to a cluster you instead need the following steps:

[start=3]

> . `docker:build` to use the http://dmp.fabric8.io/[fabric8 docker-maven-plugin] and build the docker images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `docker:build` to build the docker images
```

> . `cloudflow:push-images` to push the images to a Docker registry but returning information about the published image `sha`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `cloudflow:push-images` to push the images to a Docker registry, returning information about the published image `sha`
```

> . `cloudflow:build-app` to, finally, produce the deployable CR file in the `topLevel` project `target` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `cloudflow:build-app` to produce the deployable CR file in the `topLevel` project `target` directory
```

== Full example

> A full example of Maven commands is like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full example of Maven commands is shown below:
```

[source,bash]
----
mvn clean
mvn \
  package \
  cloudflow:extract-streamlets \
  docker:build \
  cloudflow:push-images \
  -Ddocker.username=${DOCKER_USERNAME} \
  -Ddocker.password=${DOCKER_PASSWORD} \
  -DskipTests
mvn cloudflow:build-app
----

> And you are ready to deploy your application to a cluster using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After executing the above maven commands, you are ready to deploy your application to a cluster using:
```
